Add EIP-6123: Smart Derivative Contract (#6123)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-6123.md

---
eip: 6123
title: Smart Derivative Contract
description: A deterministic protocol for frictionless post-trade processing of OTC financial contracts
author: Christian Fries (@cfries), Peter Kohl-Landgraf (@pekola), Alexandros Korpis (@kourouta)

> discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/

Reviewer: Link to _thread on ethereum magicians_ was added by @pekola

## Specification

### Methods

The following methods specify  inception and post-trade live cycle of a Smart Derivative Contract. For futher information also please look at the interface documentation ISDC.sol.

#### inceptTrade

A counterparty can initiate a trade by providing trade data as string and calling inceptTrade and initial settlement data. Only registered counteparties are allowed to use that function.

``` js
function inceptTrade(string memory _tradeData, string memory _initialSettlementData) external
```

#### confirmTrade

A counterparty can confirm a trade by providing the identical trade data and initial settlement information which are already stored from inceptTrade call.

``` js
function confirmTrade(string memory _tradeData, string memory _initialSettlementData) external;
```

#### initiatePrefunding

This method checks whether contractual prefunding is provided by both counterparties as agreed in the contract terms. Triggers a contract termination if not. 

``` js
function initiatePrefunding() external;
```

#### initiateSettlement

> Allows eligible particiants - e.g. counterparties or a delegated agent - to initiate a settlement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allows eligible participants (such as counterparties or a delegated agent) to initiate a settlement.
```

``` js
function initiateSettlement() external;
```

#### performSettlement

Valuation may be provided off-chain via an external oracle service with calculates net present value and uses external market data. 
Method serves as callback called from an external oracle providing settlement amount and used settlement data which also get stored.
Settlement amount will be checked according to contract terms resulting in either a reqular settlement or a termination of the trade.

``` js
function performSettlement(int256 settlementAmount, string memory settlementData) external;
```

#### requestTermination

> Method enables an eligible party to request a mutual termination.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allows an eligible party to request a mutual termination
```

``` js
function requestTradeTermination(string memory tradeId) external;
```

#### confirmTradeTermination

> With this method eligible party is allowed to confirm a former requested mutual trade termination

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allows eligible parties to confirm a formerly-requested mutual trade termination.
```

``` js
function confirmTradeTermination(string memory tradeId) external;
```

### Trade Events

The following events are emitted during a SDC trade livecycle.

#### TradeIncepted

Emitted on trade inception - method 'inceptTrade'

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event TradeIncepted(address initiator, string tradeId, string tradeData);
```

#### TradeConfirmed

Emitted on trade confirmation - method 'confirmTrade'

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event TradeConfirmed(address confirmer, string tradeId);
```

#### TradeActivated

Emitted when trade is activated

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event TradeActivated(string tradeId);
```

#### TradeTerminationRequest

Emitted when termination request is initiated by a counterparty

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event TradeTerminationRequest(address cpAddress, string tradeId);
```

#### TradeTerminationConfirmed

Emitted when termination request is confirmed by a counterparty

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event TradeTerminationConfirmed(address cpAddress, string tradeId);
```

#### TradeTerminated

Emitted when trade is terminated

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event TradeTerminated(string cause);
```

### Process Events

The following events are emitted during SDC's process livecycle.

#### ProcessAwaitingFunding

Emitted when funding phase is initiated

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event ProcessAwaitingFunding();
```

#### ProcessFunded

Emitted when funding has completed successfully - method 'initiatePrefunding'

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event ProcessFunded();
```

#### ProcessSettlementRequest

Emitted when a settlement is initiated - method 'initiateSettlement'

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

event ProcessSettlementRequest(string tradeData, string lastSettlementData);
```

#### ProcessSettled

Emitted when settlement was processed successfully - method 'performSettlement'

> ``` js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

- Therefor contract interface specification is supposed to completely refelect the trade livecycle.
- The interface specification is generic enough to handle the case that two counterparties process one or even multible transactions (on a netted base)
- Usually the valuation of an OTC trade will require complex valuation methodology. Therefore the concept will in most cases rely on external market data and valuation algorithms
- A pull-based valuation based oracle pattern is specified by a simple callback pattern (methods: initiateSettlement, performSettlement)
- The reference implementation `SDC.sol` is based on a state-machine pattern where the states also serve as guards (via modifiers) to check which method is allowed to be called at a particular given process and trade state
- Java based state machine and contract implementations are also available. See github repo link below.

### State diagram of trade and process states 

![image info](../assets/eip-0000/doc/sdc_trade_and_process_states.png)

### Sequence diagram of trade initiation and settlement livecycle

![image info](../assets/eip-0000/doc/sdc_livecycle_sequence_diagram.png)

## Test Cases

> Live-cycle unit tests based on the sample implementation and usage of erc20 token is provided. See folder /assets/test.

Reviewer: I have update the reference to the unit tests. All test are in one file (SDC.js) and the eip now references that file.
